[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I'm steps away from my car
when it feels like the ground
beneath my feet starts
to tilt. My eyes close,
my head falls back, and a wave
of dizziness washes over me
so intensely that
I almost pass out.
My head feels like a balloon.
Desperate for relief,
I stumble to my car,
reaching for that granola bar
stashed in the center console
because, after all, I never
leave my house without snacks.
I was just leaving my
doctor's appointment,
my 12th visit that year, in a
desperate attempt to try to get
to the root of my hormonal
dysregulation PCOS--
Polycystic Ovarian Syndrome.
I could not figure out why I
couldn't get rid of my PCOS,
and after 12 doctor's visits,
I still had no answers.
So I realized it was up to
me to figure this all out.
So I went back to
the drawing board,
listened to every
podcast I could,
read every Instagram
post and blog and book
that I could get
my hands on, only
to find no answers
that truly worked.
I was stumped and
I was hopeless.
And finally, one day I'm driving
in my car and I hear someone
say--
wow, I'm emotional--
PCOS is the diabetes
of the ovaries,
and I just about drove my
car right off the road.
Diabetes of the ovaries, OK.
I think to myself, what
do we know about diabetes?
Well, something
about blood sugar.
And that was it.
But I didn't know anything
about blood sugar.
And if I'm being honest, I
never really associated myself
with being someone who had
blood sugar issues, insulin
issues, and no one in
my family had diabetes,
so I didn't think I had
to pay attention to it.
But what I didn't
know was hurting me.
I finally realized that everyone
has to care about their blood
sugar.
According to the CDC, more than
1 in 10 people in the United
States-- adults--
have type 2 diabetes.
About 38% of people
have prediabetes,
but 1 in 3 of those people
don't know that they have it.
And alarmingly, a new
study showed that over 88%
of adults in this country
are metabolically unhealthy.
That's almost 9
out of 10 people.
That means that they
have issues already
with blood sugar and insulin.
Caring about blood sugar
is not just for diabetics.
Caring about blood
sugar is for everyone.
And we can't wait
for our doctors
to catch this because,
unfortunately,
our mainstream
medical system, they
teach doctors to look for
the presence of disease
and then to give medications to
mitigate some of those symptoms.
But blood sugar issues are
driven by diet and lifestyle.
So there's no
medications or pills
that we can take to fix this.
So when we go to our doctor and
get our fasting blood glucose
numbers tested every
year, as they do,
your doctor will tell you,
anything under 100 is fine.
But it's not fine.
Research shows that
if our blood sugar is
below 70 or above 85
fasting, there's already
signs of a problem brewing.
My blood sugar was 60.
Not one of those doctors
said anything to me.
It's no wonder why
I almost passed out.
So this month happens to be
Type 2 Diabetes Awareness Month.
And what's missing
from that conversation
is what's happening before
we develop diabetes.
Type 2 diabetes takes
decades to develop.
But no one is talking about
what these early signs are.
We can't keep taking
this reactive approach.
We have to take a proactive
approach to our blood sugar,
and I believe that begins
with learning the early signs.
So as I'm learning
about my blood sugar,
I was shocked as to
how much our blood
sugar impacts every single
aspect of our health.
Our blood sugar affects how
we feel in the here and now
and has huge impacts on
our long-term health.
And that's because our blood
sugar impacts every single cell,
organ, and process in our body.
Processes like hormone
balance, sleep, energy, hunger.
And so if our blood sugar
isn't working for us,
it is absolutely
working against us.
And so I'm learning
about blood sugar,
and I start to realize,
oh, my goodness,
so many of the
things that I thought
were personality traits
and these little labels
I gave myself were actually
blood sugar issues.
So I was the hangry friend.
I was a snacker.
I was a grazer.
I used to carry a
granola bar wherever
I went because I was a foodie.
And I also used to say, I
don't have a sweet tooth.
All my teeth are sweet.
But just because something's
common doesn't mean it's normal.
So the earliest signs
of blood sugar issues,
they start to show
up when we're hungry
or if a meal is a little
delayed or missed.
And these symptoms can feel
like a lot of different things,
but some of the main
ones are feeling dizzy,
shaky, lightheaded, anxious--
real big one-- feeling brain
fog, difficulty concentrating,
nausea, heart palpitations,
headaches, cravings, hunger,
irritability, impatience, pain.
There are so many of
these early symptoms
that maybe we might tend
to grab a cup of coffee.
Maybe we take an ibuprofen.
We're medicating
down these symptoms.
So you see our, blood sugar--
we have to think about
it like Goldilocks.
Our blood sugar, our body
doesn't like it too high.
It doesn't like it too low.
It likes it just right.
So if our blood sugar
is spiking super high
and crashing super low,
our body hates that.
And it's going to send us all
those symptoms that I just
told you about.
And those symptoms
are going to drive
us to go get quick
energy because it
thinks we're lacking in energy.
So it's going to say, hey,
go to the next Starbucks,
go to the next drive-through,
hurry up, get something.
And what that does is it puts us
back on that blood sugar roller
coaster.
We're spiking and
crashing again.
And that is the only ride
I never want to be on.
But instead, our body
loves stable blood sugar.
Not too high, not too low.
This is what will help us to
feel good in the here and now
and also help to promote
long-term health.
So as we spike and crash our
blood sugar over and over
again-- this happens
to us all the time--
and as the years go on, the
symptoms of blood sugar issues
then start to
become more severe,
and more bodily systems
start to become impacted.
So there's this
cumulative effect
of these blood sugar issues on
our body and our physiology.
We start to see
a lot of symptoms
in some different areas, and
some of those include big time
our brain, which is a
main consumer of energy.
So we have energy crashes.
We don't have energy at all.
We have brain fog, we
have anxiety, depression,
or mood disorders.
And we also struggle with
this brain fog and difficulty
forming memories.
And Alzheimer's is now being
called type 3 diabetes.
There's hunger issues.
We feel insatiable hunger.
We never feel full.
We need that little piece of
chocolate right after we eat,
we have cravings, and
maybe we even binge eat.
That was something I
struggled with as well.
There are weight issues.
Blood sugar issues can
make us hold on to weight,
not be able to lose weight
no matter what we do.
Also, another issue
I struggled with.
And it also can cause us to
put on visceral fat, which
is that dangerous type of fat.
So if we want to start
improving our blood sugar,
we have to take this
seriously, and we
have to take this
into our own hands.
And we can start with
these five things.
Number one, put on
a continuous glucose
monitor and start learning
what works for your body.
Number two, build your plate
around protein, healthy fat,
and fiber to mitigate some
of those blood sugar spikes.
Number three, move your
body, especially after meals,
and build muscle.
Number four, take
time for relaxation.
We have a lot of stress.
We can't get rid of it, but
we can relax our bodies.
And number five,
sync your bodies
with nature's light
and dark cycles
to support better sleep because
anything we do to support sleep
will support better blood sugar.
So if you want to feel
more energy, sleep better.
And finally, throw out
that stupid granola bar
in your purse.
We can't wait for our
doctors to catch this.
I healed my PCOS and
my blood sugar issues.
And you can, too.
Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
[MUSIC PLAYING]